RP2040 -

1. Dual Cortex-M0+ Cores-Two identical M0+ CPUs running at up to 133 MHz
 - 32 bit risc architecture (thumb 2 instruction set- Thumb-2 instruction set
Thumb-2 is an enhancement to the 16-bit Thumb instruction set. It adds 32-bit instructions that can be freely intermixed with 16-bit instructions in a program. The additional 32-bit instructions enable Thumb-2 to cover the functionality of the ARM instruction set. The 32-bit instructions enable Thumb-2 to combine the code density of earlier versions of Thumb, with performance of the ARM instruction.

The most important difference between the Thumb-2 instruction set and the ARM instruction set is that most 32-bit Thumb instructions are unconditional, whereas most ARM instructions can be conditional. Thumb-2 introduces a conditional execution instruction, IT, that is a logical if-then-else function that you can apply to following instructions to make them conditional.

Thumb-2 instructions are accessible as were Thumb instructions when the processor is in Thumb state, that is, the T bit in the CPSR is 1 and the J bit in the CPSR is 0.

In addition to the 32-bit Thumb instructions, there are several 16-bit Thumb instructions and a few 32-bit ARM instructions, introduced as part of the Thumb-2 architecture.)

- Single-cycle I/O (SIO) access for fast GPIO operations.
- Inter-core communication via mailbox FIFOs and hardware spinlocks.
- Independent AHB-Lite bus interfaces for parallel memory/peripheral access

2. Code may be executed directly from external memory through a dedicated SPI, DSPI or QSPI interface. A small cache
improves performance for typical applications.

3. you can debug the microcontroller using the SWD (Serial Wire Debug) interface.

Internal SRAM is arranged in banks which can contain code or data and is accessed via dedicated AHB bus fabric
connections, allowing bus masters to access separate bus slaves without being stalled.

DMA bus masters are available to offload repetitive data transfer tasks from the processors.
GPIO pins can be driven directly, or from a variety of dedicated logic functions

. The main AHB-Lite crossbar routes addresses and data between
its 4 upstream ports and 10 downstream ports: up to four bus transfers can take place each cycle. All data paths are 32
bits wide. Memory devices have dedicated ports on the main crossbar, to satisfy their high bandwidth requirements. Highbandwidth AHB-Lite peripherals have a shared port on the crossbar, and an APB bridge provides bus access to system
control registers and lower-bandwidth peripherals

When there are multiple simultaneous accesses to same arbiter, any requests from high-priority masters (priority level 1)
will be considered before any requests from low-priority masters (priority 0). If multiple masters of the same priority level
attempt to access the same slave simultaneously, a round-robin tie break is applied, i.e. the arbiter grants access to each
master in turn.

Each peripheral register block is allocated 4kB of address space, with registers accessed using one of 4 methods,
 selected by address decode.
 • Addr + 0x0000 : normal read write access
 • Addr + 0x1000 : atomic XOR on write
 • Addr + 0x2000 : atomic bitmask set on write
 • Addr + 0x3000 : atomic bitmask clear on write

 Memory-mapped IO registers on RP2040 ignore the width of bus read/write accesses. They treat all writes as though they
 were 32 bits in size. This means software can not use byte or halfword writes to modify part of an IO register: any write to
 an address where the 30 address MSBs match the register address will affect the contents of the entire register

 To update part of an IO register, without a read-modify-write sequence, the best solution on RP2040 is atomic
set/clear/XOR 

